# python-dashboard
A Python Dashboard, Made with Dash, Jupyter, and MongoDB

The project I chose for this milestone was the Animal Shelter dashboard from CS-340. This project is a HTML dashboard built in Python to read data from MongoDB. The project searches the database for dogs that would be a good fit for rescue programs. The project as developed for the class was outputting raw data from the database with basic filtering options. The main reason I selected this project for my ePortfolio was because it shows the ability to work in multiple different technologies, including web development, databases, and Python. The project looked extremely rough and had significant opportunities for improvement.

My improvements to this project started with filtering relevant data onto the display. I removed unneeded columns from the database, like multiple different date and time fields, and fields like outcome from the shelter case, as those aren’t needed in the data. This gave a more relevant view of the data and allowed the width of the page to fit on a standard 1080p monitor better without a horizontal scrollbar. My next improvement was to edit the header on the document. The header required the company logo in it, plus two lines of a title. In the version of the app that I started with, these were just three separate rows on the screen, which made the vertical scroll cut off most of the data shown. I rearranged the image to the side of the text to make this shorter and bring content like the graph onto the initial view of the page. For the third improvement, I fixed a bug that prevented the graph from updating based on the filters on the data.

I felt this was the hardest project to work on overall, as most of this project involved setting up software on my computer that I had used previously on the SNHU online environment. I had to install anaconda, mongo, python, jupyter, and several other components just to get the code running. The experience of installing and configuring the software felt like I learned more than working on the code. Once I got the software configured, I felt that the code changes were relatively easy. The process of installing and configuring dependencies in an environment is something that I did not think much about during the course of the degree, and I think that is probably something important to have experienced at least this once.
